got a question here from Mike on Raw
Mike on Raw I've known him via YouTube
since forever he talks to me by a
patreon once in awhile and he just was
talking to me now by a you now which
miraculously is working tonight in China
live streaming application Mike asks a
very simple question he asks if we say
there was a long game and a short game
to be played or vegans playing either
game well today I think you have to
separate this into a couple of
categories and I think the real game
that that you're asking about Mike is
probably the culture or game there's a
term that's not only used in disparaging
a negative way new sweater by the way
guys just just bought this today try I'm
trying to look 65 is it working anyway
you know I think I think what you're
really asking about is what people in
politics used to call the culture wars
it's a shame the term the culture wars
is now used only negatively and people
tend to use it in reference to for
example cultural struggles within the
United States about the status of
abortion with the status of homosexuals
that this is a culture war that
conservatives were trying to win not
through Democratic means but through
churches through through for example the
contrast between the culture that you
see on a left-wing University campus in
the United States and a right-wing
university campus in the United States I
come from Canada I don't think we have
any right-wing universities in Canada
every every campus I've been on
candidates so left-wing it's it's almost
communist or there are there are a lot
of Communists okay he first he campuses
they pay up I probably you know what I
think Prince Edward Island I think in
Canada we have one right wing University
that I know of but it was in the u.s.
they're both so term culture wars is
often used in that way disparagingly or
lamenting ly about those struggles over
those kinds changes but yeah I mean you
talk about a long game and a short game
I don't think we could possibly be
talking about fundraising for a
particular institution throwing a
particular picnic having a particular
you know concert or event like that
which there's plenty of going on on
planet earth under the heading of
veganism which is you know hopeful in
some ways I think the question is how
are we trying to influence culture short
term and long term um you know when you
go to Google Ngram which is this
internet-based application that measures
how many times a word is used the word
vegan the use has gone up exponentially
but that's because Google Ngram is above
all influenced by words in print
traditional old-fashioned on paper book
publishing and the word vegan is used
all the time because it's used in
cookbooks so the currency of the word
itself as measured by Google and Graham
and what-have-you cookbooks themselves
are huge but do cookbooks influence
cultural change I'd say no I mean if
someone buys a cookbook as a gift to
give to someone else who isn't already
vegan that's a form of influence but I
remember when I was in Germany and
there's in effect no vegan food no vegan
restaurants in the city I was in Germany
I'm not even complaining it's just the
reality I remember the one time I would
see the word vegan leap out of me when I
was walking past the bookstores one in
particular in the front display window
they had a couple of vegan recipe books
you know think oh that legally thought
you know kind of even if you've seen it
before you can't help noticing the word
vegan at the corner of your eye but you
know this is like the old distinction
tree hot media and cold media the fact
that that book is sitting on a shelf
doesn't mean that it's influencing
cultural change it's like a lagging
indicator people who already become
vegan are buying vegan cookbooks or
maybe some people aren't vegan or try to
lose weight you know but the same
indication before September 11th 2001
all the books about Islam as a religion
were on the shelves at the bookstores
and they were on the shelves of the
libraries of course but I can remember
because I was part of my own education I
studied political science I studied
politics in the Muslim world before
September 11th and nobody was reading
those books a parent
not even in the courses that require you
to read them and it used to be that a
lot of the watchwords you know like the
difference between the hadith and the
Koran the different concepts that are
fundamental to Muslim jurisprudence
Muslim legal said nobody knew those
terms if you said them in English in a
political conversation people would just
look at you like what what the hell are
you talking about this is in a you know
formal academic setting after September
11th everything changed so I mean the
books were there you know but they
weren't changing the world the world
changed and then people started reaching
out for making use of those books um I
may seem like an exceedingly bizarre
comparison to make but I do think it's a
salient one in the same way when people
become vegan they start making use of
those those books and otherwise the
books sit there you know as you know as
meaningless and inert as a tombstone as
easily ignored as a monument you can
walk past the same monument on the
street every day it means nothing to you
and you know the other elements of
cultural change the other elements of
the movement give them life or what have
you I don't know man I mean um so you
know vegans trying to achieve cultural
change uh the the people who are winning
the people who are winning in the long
game are the people honestly this is the
only positive the people are opening
restaurants restaurants are probably the
most underrated institution and veganism
I've talked to the vegans also but
opening like a food truck you know
mobile restaurant I do think that both
in terms of the short game in the long
game I think that restaurants as such
you know inherently political
restaurants vegan restaurants can be can
be a very powerful card to be played I
think for the short game the long game
that is very positive I would really
have to wrack my brains to think of even
one other positive example under any
heading whatsoever to mention here and
you guys have heard me say if you've
been watching this channel for a while I
used to talk a lot about street protests
the different methods of activism
I haven't lately just couldn't like to
repeat myself but you know when I see
people you know down to and including
like vegan gains running up to strangers
and yelling at them on the street
because they're wearing fur coats I
understand why they're doing that
I may sympathize that the motives or
what-have-you but both in terms of the
short game and the long game you know
obviously no I do not think that's
playing the game well and it's not just
about the people who get yelled at the
people wearing the fur coats I think the
people who engage in those forms of
activism themselves even though it may
be cathartic and the short term long
term they burn out hopefully they move
on to other more productive forms of
activism but a lot of them just burn out
on activism period if that's their their
motive activism so that's it man I mean
restaurants they are institutions and
that is really currently the only
positive institution-building aspect of
what's going on in veganism that I know
of that I can think of there is today
there's no such thing as a vegan theater
there's no such thing as a vegan sitcom
there could be on YouTube we could put
together a vegan sitcom we still do not
have anything like a vegan news program
comparable to you know the Young Turks
sorry clothes and there's a guy named
clothes who tries to do that it's not
it's not what I'm talking about you know
we have nothing going on in terms of
publications like newspapers or
magazines I know sorry I don't want to
go on and on here aside from the
restaurants which are obviously crew I
don't even know about saris a good
example I don't even know about vegan
gyms I have talked to some of the beings
with the idea of opening a vegan gym you
know place to workout but all the stuff
is is vegan and including the foods of
you know well yeah so someone here in
the chat is just joking at least there's
vegan drama so those people have already
burnt out also right we just had vegan
cheetah so he's gonna quit etc etc yeah
[Music]
hopefully that wasn't too abstract for
you Mike